Let's log into AWS and see how to create a CodeStar project from
scratch. Under list of services, search for CodeStar,
and this will take you to the CodeStar console.
Click on Start Project, and you will land on the project template page.
To your left, you have the option to filter the templates based on the
application category or programming languages or AWS services. I'm going
to choose a simple HTML project.
You can see an error prompting that this user is
missing the required privileges.
Let's go to IAM and grant him the required privileges.
Click on Users, choose Admin, click on Add permissions,
attach existing policies directly, and search for AWS CodeStar.
Let's select AWSCodeStarFullAccess and select Review and click Add permissions.
You can see the new policy has been successfully applied to this user.
Let me sign out as a root user and log in back as admin. Click on CodeStar,
start project. Select HTML under programming languages.
Choose the project template. Now that we provided the
required access, we don't see the error anymore.
Let's give the project a name.
I'm going to leave AWS CodeCommit as the repository for this project.
Click Next. And I'm going to let AWS CodeStar administer the AWS resources.
Click on Create Project.
You are challenged with a window to select an EC2 key pair.
This is required to log in to the EC2 server that is
getting provisioned as part of this project. Since I
already have a key pair named test,
I'm going to select that. Click on Create Project.
Since this is our first project, enter a display name and an email address.
Click Next. Select your default code editor.
I'm going to choose Cloud9, but you have other options to choose as well.
Click Next. And I'm going to select t2.micro as the instance for Cloud9.
This instance is just for our development environment
and not for the entire project.
You can provide environment name and a brief description.
I'm going to accept the default cost savings settings.
Click Next. Now that we have selected all the components, the project's
set up, and provisioning is currently under progress.
This may take a while to complete.
Once the setup is completed,
you can see the D for dashboard where you can access your
Cloud9 environment, your team wiki.
It also shows the latest commit that happened in the repository. To the
right, it shows the endpoints and the project lifecycle that's collecting
multiple AWS Services from source to deploy.
Let's go back and set up our team. Currently,
there is one user who is the owner of this project. As we saw before, an owner
is one who can add other team members. Click on Add team member, select
developer1, and I'm going to assign him a contributor role.
Click Add and let's repeat the same process and add manager and assign him
a viewer role. Click on Code to your left, and you can see a new
repository with the name Globomantics‑P2 has been created, and a default
set of code has already been checked in.
This was generated as part of the project creation process.
A readme file at the bottom gives you a brief overview of the files,
the structure, and how to edit the project.
Let's go back to CodeStar and click on See my environments.
This will let you access your Cloud9 environment. It may take a few
seconds until the environment is completely launched.
Since this is the first time of me launching Cloud9 in CodeStar project,
you can see that the repository Globomantics‑P2 is
automatically getting cloned. Under environments,
you will see a directory named Globomantics‑P2.
Let's switch to the directory and go to the folder named
webpage. Before making any changes, as usual,
I'm going to create a separate branch named develop and check out this branch.
Let me open index.html and make some changes.
Save the file and exit. Let's add the file to the local branch, commit the
changes, and push the changes to the remote develop branch.
I'm going to go back to CodeCommit, click on Code, choose develop branch,
select the file that we edited, click on Create pull request, provide the
pull request title, and click on Create pull request.
Since there are no merge conflicts, the Merge button is enabled.
Go ahead and click on Merge and Merge pull request. Now that we are
in the master branch, let's go back to the webpage folder, choose
index.html, and you can see the changes that we did in the Cloud9
environment have been successfully merged from develop branch to the master branch.